Update installation instructions (#907)
elyra-ai/elyra: docs/source/getting_started/installation.md

{% endcomment %}
-->
## Installation

The Elyra [JupyterLab extension](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user/extensions.html) can be installed using `pip`, `conda`, or from source code. Installation of Elyra requires a rebuild of JupyterLab.

> 

Reviewer: I would say something like, `JupyterLab currently requires a build after installing any extension.`

Author: Changed

        @jupyterlab/toc v4.0.0  enabled  OK
        nbdime-jupyterlab v2.0.0  enabled  OK
```

### Docker 

> If you have Docker installed, you can install and use JupyterLab and Elyra by selecting one of the [ready-to-run Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/elyra/tags) maintained by the Elyra Team:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have Docker installed, you can use JupyterLab and Elyra by running one of the [ready-to-run Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/elyra/tags) maintained by the Elyra Team:
```

 - `elyra/elyra:latest` has the latest released version installed.
 - `elyra/elyra:x.y.z` has version `x.y.z` installed.
 - `elyra/elyra:dev` is automatically re-built each time a change is committed to the master branch.

The command below starts the most recent development build in a clean environment:

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

To make a local directory containing your Notebooks (e.g. `${HOME}/opensource/jupyter-notebooks/`) available in your Docker container, you can use a mount command similar to the following:

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v ${HOME}/opensource/jupyter-notebooks/:/home/jovyan/work -w /home/jovyan/work elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

> 

Reviewer: How about adding a new section to mount the available metadata from local system to docker? Just follow the same pattern above and point to `jupyter --data-dir/metadata`

Author: As suggested this doesn't work unless I am missing something:

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v $HOME/jupyter-notebooks/:/home/jovyan/work -w /home/jovyan/work -v $HOME/jupyter-metadata:/home/jovyan/.local/share/jupyter/metadata elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

yields

```
[D 16:23:07.010 LabApp] Searching ['/home/jovyan/work', '/home/jovyan/.jupyter', '/opt/conda/etc/jupyter', '/usr/local/etc/jupyter', '/etc/jupyter'] for config files
[D 16:23:07.011 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_config in /etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.011 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_config in /usr/local/etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.011 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_config in /opt/conda/etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.011 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_config in /home/jovyan/.jupyter
[D 16:23:07.011 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_config in /home/jovyan/work
[D 16:23:07.013 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_notebook_config in /etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.014 LabApp] Loaded config file: /etc/jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.py
[D 16:23:07.014 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_notebook_config in /usr/local/etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.014 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_notebook_config in /opt/conda/etc/jupyter
[D 16:23:07.015 LabApp] Loaded config file: /opt/conda/etc/jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.json
[D 16:23:07.015 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_notebook_config in /home/jovyan/.jupyter
[D 16:23:07.015 LabApp] Loaded config file: /home/jovyan/.jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.py
[D 16:23:07.015 LabApp] Looking for jupyter_notebook_config in /home/jovyan/work
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/traitlets/traitlets.py", line 528, in get
    value = obj._trait_values[self.name]
KeyError: 'runtime_dir'

During handling of the above exception, another exception occurred:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/opt/conda/bin/jupyter-lab", line 8, in <module>
    sys.exit(main())
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/jupyter_core/application.py", line 268, in launch_instance
    return super(JupyterApp, cls).launch_instance(argv=argv, **kwargs)
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/traitlets/config/application.py", line 663, in launch_instance
    app.initialize(argv)
  File "</opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/decorator.py:decorator-gen-7>", line 2, in initialize
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/traitlets/config/application.py", line 87, in catch_config_error
    return method(app, *args, **kwargs)
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/notebook/notebookapp.py", line 1766, in initialize
    self.init_configurables()
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/notebook/notebookapp.py", line 1380, in init_configurables
    connection_dir=self.runtime_dir,
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/traitlets/traitlets.py", line 556, in __get__
    return self.get(obj, cls)
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/traitlets/traitlets.py", line 535, in get
    value = self._validate(obj, dynamic_default())
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/jupyter_core/application.py", line 99, in _runtime_dir_default
    ensure_dir_exists(rd, mode=0o700)
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/site-packages/jupyter_core/utils/__init__.py", line 13, in ensure_dir_exists
    os.makedirs(path, mode=mode)
  File "/opt/conda/lib/python3.7/os.py", line 221, in makedirs
    mkdir(name, mode)
PermissionError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/home/jovyan/.local/share/jupyter/runtime'
```

I can only get it to work if the mount point is `jupyterlab --data-dir` (`/home/jovyan/.local/share/jupyter` in the image):

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v $HOME/jupyter-notebooks/:/home/jovyan/work -w /home/jovyan/work -v $HOME/jupyter-metadata:/home/jovyan/.local/share/jupyter elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

Author: I updated the documentation to mount the JupyterLab data directory.

Reviewer: you are actually right, as the current image does not have the `jupyter data-dir` created... as you mentioned I could make the following to work:
```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v $HOME/jupyter-notebooks/:/home/jovyan/work -w /home/jovyan/work -v $HOME/Library/Jupyter:/home/jovyan/.local/share/jupyter elyra/elyra:1.1.0 jupyter lab --debug

```

```

### Docker 

If you have Docker installed, you can use JupyterLab and Elyra by running one of the [ready-to-run Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/elyra/tags) maintained by the Elyra Team:

 - `elyra/elyra:latest` has the latest released version installed.
 - `elyra/elyra:x.y.z` has version `x.y.z` installed.
 - `elyra/elyra:dev` is automatically re-built each time a change is committed to the master branch.

Invocation example 1: Run the most recent Elyra development build in a Docker container. All changes are discarded when the Docker container is stopped.

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888 elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

Invocation example 2: Run the most recent Elyra development build in a Docker container and mount the existing local `$HOME/jupyter-notebooks/` directory as JupyterLab work directory. This enables you to make existing notebooks and other files available in the Docker container. Only files in this working directory are retained when the Docker container is stopped. 

```
docker run -it -p 8888:8888\
 -v ${HOME}/jupyter-notebooks/:/home/jovyan/work\
 -w /home/jovyan/work\
 elyra/elyra:dev jupyter lab --debug
```

> Invocation example 3: Same as above. In addition the existing local `$HOME/jupyter-data-dir` directory is mounted as the Jupyter data directory, preserving all user-defined Elyra metadata artifacts you create, such as code snippets, runtime configurations, or runtime images.

Reviewer: Just to make sure, there is a command `jupyter --data-dir` that gives you the location of the data directory (e.g. `/Users/lresende/Library/Jupyter` in my macos dev environment`

Author: It turns out we were thinking about two different scenarios and my arbitrary directory name choice was ambiguous. For the purpose of this documentation `jupyter-data-dir` is a placeholder for any valid local directory name.
 - If `$HOME/jupyter-data-dir`  refers to an empty local directory JupyterLab in the Docker container is started in a "clean" environment. 
 - If `$HOME/jupyter-data-dir`  refers to the data directory of a local JupyterLab installation (`jupyter --data-dir`) then the Jupyter metadata is shared between the local instance and the instance in the Docker container. This is an advanced usage scenario.

I updated the document accordingly, which should hopefully address the concern.
